# ATMS 305 Spring 2017 Homework 3  v1.1
## Due: 13 February 2017, 9:30 AM
Your homework will be collected from the following folder: `/data/atms305/a/netID/ATMS-305/Week4Answers`.  Place your final scripts for each problem, and the output of the scripts into that folder.  The script output, copied and pasted from the terminal can be saved in a file `Week4Answers.txt` in that directory.  Note each output with a header and footer, such as:
```
---------------------------------------------------------------
OUTPUT FROM PROBLEM 1
[PASTE TEXT HERE]
---------------------------------------------------------------
OUTPUT FROM PROBLEM 2
[PASTE TEXT HERE]
---------------------------------------------------------------
```
# Problems:

## 1. Setting variables

Solve the following problem in `python`, and print the data to screen with a script.  Store the data into variables, and compute the answers using mathematical statements in your script.

Data:

You have a fleet of 100 cars

You have 30 drivers

You have 85 passengers to take

Assume that you are running a car pool one way into Chicago from the suburbs in the morning, and that they can only make one trip.

Print to the screen (answer using **full sentences**):
### a.) How many cars will not be used that day? (cars without available drivers)
### b.) How many cars will be used that day? (cars with available drivers)
### c.) How many drivers and passengers will be transported in this car pool (assuming 4 people can fit in each car, including the driver)
### d.) What is the average number of passengers per car driven?

## 2. Write a `python` script that will calculate the saturation vapor pressure of water as a function of temperature given a **command line argument** of temperature in *degrees Celsius*.

Use the following formula:

(https://wikimedia.org/api/rest_v1/media/math/render/svg/0ba2adef90ce97ae2d32505e1b00f74ef9030b95)
