# ATMS 305 Spring 2017 Homework 1  v1.2
## Due: 30 January 2017, 9:30 AM
Enter the output of these commands, and save the responses/screen shots in a folder called `/data/atms305/a/netID/ATMS-305/Week2Answers`.  Copy and paste your entire terminal session in a file called `Week2Answers.txt` in that directory.

Fork this repository on the github web page (after you log in), login to keeling, and type the following in your home directory

```
git clone https://github.com/[your github username]/ATMS-305.git
```

Note that there are no brackets on your github username in the above command.  To get any updates once you have done `clone`, first add my repository as an upstream
```
git remote add upstream https://github.com/swnesbitt/ATMS-305.git
```
Now, anytime you want to get updates from me without deleting files you have created, just do the following from your class repository directory ( `/data/atms305/a/netID/ATMS-305`).  If you're not there, `cd` there.
```
git fetch upstream
git checkout master
git merge upstream/master
```
Now you’re up to date with me on your keeling repository.
To push any changes up to github.com, so your repository is up to date on line, including any changes you have made, do the following from the top level of your repository (which is `/data/atms305/a/netID/ATMS-305`), do the following.

The first time we do this (and only the first time), we need to add your username to the configuration file.  Do this by editing your repository configuration file, located in the repository folder, in the directory `/data/atms/a/netID/ATMS-305/.git`.  Edit this file:
```
pico /data/atms/a/netID/ATMS-305/.git/config
```
Edit the line that starts with `url` to say
```
      url = https://[github username]@github.com/[github username]/ATMS-305.git
```
Save the file (control-O, and exit control-X).  You won't have to do this again for the rest of the semester.
```
git add –A
git commit –m “Update due to errors from snesbitt :D”
git push origin master
```
Obviously you want to have a relevant message intead of an insult to your instructor.

If you get an error `cannot open display`, run the windows command Xming, or type
```
export SSH_ASKPASS=""
```
before the `push` command.

Now all is well on github.  This is how you will submit your assignment also.

# 1. Connecting and disconnecting to keeling
1.	Log in to `keeling.earth.illinois.edu` using ssh with your netID and password. Log out.
2.	Log in again, using a random user name
-> What happens?
2. Create a file
Use pico to create a file called signature.txt in `/data/atms305/a/netID/ATMS-305/Week2answers`.
To do this you can
mkdir /data/atms305/a/netID/ATMS-305/Week2answers
cd /data/atms305/a/netID/ATMS-305/Week2answers

Then edit the file.
The file should have the following:
```
Your name
Your major
Your hometown
```
Save the file and exit.
# 2. Directories
These are some exercises to help you get the feel for linux directories.
1.	Enter the command `cd blah`
-> What happens?
2.	Enter the command `cd ..`
Mind the space between `cd` and `..`! Use the pwd command.
-> What happens?
3.	List the directory contents with the `ls` command.
-> What do you see?
-> What do you think these are?
-> Check using the `pwd` command.
4.	Enter the `cd` command.
-> What happens?
5.	Repeat step *2* until you get an error message.
-> What happens?
6.	Display the contents of this directory.
7.	Try the command `cd root`
-> What happens?
-> To which directories do you have access?
8.	Repeat step 4.
Do you know another possibility to get where you are now?

# 3. Files
1.	Change directory to `/` and then to `etc`. Type `ls`; if the output is longer than your screen, make the window longer, scroll, or try Shift+PageUp and Shift+PageDown.
The file inittab contains the answer to the first question in this list. Try the file command on it.
-> The file type of my `inittab` is .....
1. Use the command cat `inittab` and read the file.
-> What is the default mode of your computer?
1.	Return to your home directory using the `cd` command.
1.	Enter the command `file .`
-> Does this help to find the meaning of `.`?
1.	Can you look at `.` using the cat command?
1.	Display help for the `cat` program, using the `--help option`. Use the option for numbering of output lines to count how many users are listed in the file `/etc/passwd`.

# 4. Getting help (when you don’t have Google)
1.	Read `man intro`.
1.	Read `man ls`.
1.	Read `info passwd`
1. Enter the `apropos pwd` command.
1.	Try `man` or `info` on `cd`.
-> How would you find out more about `cd`?
1.	Read `ls --help` and try it out.
